well I had either internet people it's
both again so tonight we're going to
talk about an email question I got a
quick history lesson on a term and then
we're going to answer it and by we I
mean you guys cuz I don't have a hard
answer on this one I mean I do but mine
has nothing to do with the actual
question and so okay so the email
basically boils down to this there's a
group of people who are wanting to set
up either a Facebook page or group
something that is for people in the
South who are left-leaning one of the
suggested names that they came up with
is left in Dixie if you don't know the
Dixie Chicks within the last like 48
hours have dropped Dixie from their name
now they're just the chicks okay this of
course sparked conversation about
whether or not they should use this term
and whether or not the term Dixie is
racist okay so to answer this question
we have to know the origin the origin of
the term there are three theories on
where it came from one of them is just
trash one to me seems less likely and
one seems more likely either remaining
two the first theory is that there was
this really nice slave owner named Dixie
and all the slaves wanted to go and work
on Dixie's land which then became Dixie
land that's not real I there's nothing
to suggest that's true as far as I know
and I've looked it doesn't even make
sense that the white slave owning
population would choose to self-identify
as a term that came from slaves who
weren't happy their plantations that it
just doesn't even make sense so I don't
believe that one at all another one is
that it came from the mason-dixon line
which is the dividing line between the
north and the south and that kind of
makes sense
Dixon Dixie I get it however I know that
maybe from the outside looking down here
it all looks like one thing it's not if
you're outside of the south and you say
Dixie yeah it generally refers to the
whole south but if you're inside the
south and you say Dixie you're really
talking about a specific area Alabama
Mississippi and Louisiana where I'm at
but as you're gonna find out terms are
kind of fluid down here so it doesn't
make sense to me that those states
closest to the mason-dixon line don't
really refer to themselves as Dixie but
those almost as far ways you can get do
the third theory the one I believe has
nothing to do with any of this it has to
do with French in Louisiana prior to the
Civil War they printed their own bank
notes the bank of Louisiana
they spoke French and English on the $10
bill it said ten on the front and on the
back it had ten written in French dese D
IX these bills were Dixie's the trade
that went up and down the Mississippi
River went into New Orleans all of this
mainly came from mobile and up and down
the Mississippi Alabama Mississippi
Louisiana the area that we we still call
Dixie that to me makes a whole lot more
sense that it came from people who were
working on boats and carrying this money
with them that seems to make a whole lot
more sense neither one of the origins is
inherently early racist toward their
their geography things however that's
not the end of the story the term became
popularized during the Civil War because
of a song called Dixie oddly enough
written by a guy in Ohio
Daniel Emmett omits the last name may be
wrong on the first name how would he
know the term
because of the Mississippi and Ohio
rivers people going up and down it it
makes sense it falls into it supports
that theory a little bit more okay so
Emmitt like did blackface racist okay
however not a Confederate in fact he
said that if he had known the South was
going to use the song he never would I
wrote it
the song was rewritten several times one
of them most notably by a guy named
Albert Pike you might remember that name
from recent events so when it became
popular
it was definitely racist and then it had
a resurgence of use in the 1960s
definite racist connotation there and
then you have the Dixiecrats as well now
as today how it's used it's either a
geographic area or it all depends on how
it's said if I was to say you know I'm
in a Dixie mood tonight that means I
want to go drink shine on somebody's
porch and listen to Cajun music nothing
inherently racist about that however if
somebody's like you know you and Dixie
right that's that yeah there's
definitely some racist undertones to
that even the term whistling Dixie based
on context can mean that person is over
there goofing off and wasting time that
person's over there talking to a girl or
that person's in a bad mood and looking
for a fight
the term is very fluid so I don't know
that I would use it but strictly based
on clarity I have no idea whether or not
the perception of it from black
Americans is racist I'm gonna have to
ask them and hopefully they're going to
answer in the comments section I would
like to know actually to be completely
honest because where I'm at on the Gulf
Coast it doesn't really get used
in that manner it really does have more
to do with Cajun music and food or a
certain geographic area however there
are other parts of the south where it's
going to have a different meaning it
really is very there are certain areas
that seem like entirely different
countries within the south so I just I'm
not sure that using that term to try to
market a left-leaning group is going to
produce the results you want you may get
the exact opposite type of people being
interested so I can't wait to see
comment section on this one to be honest
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night